---
layout: post
title: front end
---



**front end**<br >

The front-end is everything involved with what the user sees, including design and some languages like HTML and CSS.<br />
Most of the web courses created at Digital-Tutors will be for the front-end and focused on design, but there are already a bunch of front-end specific courses available at Pluralsight as well.<br />

There are a lot of different jobs associated with the front-end. Keep in mind that a lot of these titles are subjective, and while front-end developer may mean something at one company, it can mean something completely different at another company.<br />

A common front-end job title is *web designer* A web designer, you guessed it, designs websites. The job title of web designer is pretty broad, though. A web designer could just be someone who designs the sites in a program like Photoshop or Fireworks and will never touch the code. But in another location, a web designer could do all the design comps in Photoshop, and then be responsible for creating all the HTML and CSS and sometimes even JavaScript to go along with it.<br />

A User Interface *UI* Designer is basically a visual designer and is generally focused on design. They’re not usually involved in the implementation of the design, but they might know light HTML and CSS so they can communicate their ideas more effectively to the developers.<br />

User Experience *UX* designers work in the front-end and study and researches how people use the sites and make changes through a lot of testing.<br />

A front-end designer or developer can create a site without any back-end development. The sites they would create without a web developer, or using the back-end, is a static site. A static site is something like a site for a restaurant or hair salon. It doesn’t require any information to be stored in a database. The pages will almost always stay the same, unless it’s time for a redesign.<br />

A front-end developer may be required to have a grasp on testing, as well as be well versed in HTML, CSS and JavaScript. This person may or may not have experience with creating the design in a design program. A different version of this title is front-end engineer. Specific front-end languages like *JavaScript developer* are also considered front-end developers.<br>

